RS232 Connection on the Bedrock V3000
======================================

The Bedrock V3000 does not expose a native DE-9 RS232 port on its front panel.
The recommended approach for connecting a GNSS receiver is a **USB-to-RS232
adapter**, which appears as a standard TTY device on Linux with full Qt
``QSerialPort`` support.

Hardware Connection
--------------------

.. code-block:: text

   GNSS Receiver
   ├── TX ──────────────────► RX
   ├── RX ◄────────────────── TX    USB-to-RS232     Bedrock V3000
   └── GND ─────────────────► GND   adapter          USB 3.2 port
                                    (CP2102/FTDI)  ──► /dev/ttyUSB0

Recommended adapters for industrial use:

- **FTDI FT232RL** — most reliable Linux driver, best latency
- **Silicon Labs CP2102** — excellent Linux support, common in industrial grade
- Avoid PL2303 clones — unreliable driver behaviour under sustained load

Wiring the RS232 Side
----------------------

Most GNSS receivers output NMEA on a standard DE-9 connector or bare pins:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 20 20 60

   * - GNSS pin
     - Adapter pin
     - Notes
   * - TX (data out)
     - RX (DE-9 pin 2)
     - GNSS sends → adapter receives
   * - RX (data in)
     - TX (DE-9 pin 3)
     - Only needed if sending commands to receiver
   * - GND
     - GND (DE-9 pin 5)
     - Common ground — always connect
   * - VCC (3.3V or 5V)
     - —
     - Power from receiver's own supply; do not power from adapter

.. warning::
   RS232 signal levels are ±12V. Do NOT connect RS232 TX/RX directly to
   a UART/TTL header (3.3V) without a level shifter. Dedicated USB-to-RS232
   adapters handle this conversion internally.

Linux Device Node
------------------

After plugging in the USB-to-RS232 adapter, verify the device appears:

.. code-block:: bash

   # List USB serial devices
   ls /dev/ttyUSB*
   # Expected: /dev/ttyUSB0

   # Check kernel log for device recognition
   dmesg | tail -20 | grep -E "tty|USB|serial"

   # Verify NMEA output at the command line (replace 9600 with your baud rate)
   stty -F /dev/ttyUSB0 9600 raw
   cat /dev/ttyUSB0

You should see a stream of ``$GNGGA``, ``$GNRMC`` sentences scrolling in the
terminal. If not, check your wiring and baud rate.

User Permissions
-----------------

On Ubuntu/Debian, add your user to the ``dialout`` group to access serial ports
without root:

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo usermod -aG dialout $USER
   # Log out and back in for this to take effect

   # Verify
   groups $USER | grep dialout

Common GNSS Receiver Baud Rates
---------------------------------

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40 25 35

   * - Receiver type
     - Default baud
     - Update rate
   * - Standard GPS (SiRF, MTK)
     - 4800 or 9600
     - 1 Hz
   * - u-blox M8 series
     - 9600
     - 1–10 Hz (configurable)
   * - u-blox F9P (RTK)
     - 115200 (default)
     - 1–20 Hz
   * - Trimble, Novatel (survey)
     - 9600–115200
     - 1–100 Hz

.. tip::
   For aerial imaging applications, use a receiver with at least **5 Hz**
   update rate. At 5 Hz a platform moving at 30 m/s has a maximum position
   uncertainty of 6 m between updates. At 1 Hz that grows to 30 m — potentially
   unacceptable for precision applications.

Qt Serial Port — Required Package
-----------------------------------

Install the Qt SerialPort module (if not already included):

.. code-block:: bash

   sudo apt install qt6-serialport-dev

Add to ``CMakeLists.txt``:

.. code-block:: cmake

   find_package(Qt6 REQUIRED COMPONENTS Core Widgets Gui SerialPort)

   target_link_libraries(SHR_Camera_App
       PRIVATE
           Qt6::Core Qt6::Widgets Qt6::Gui Qt6::SerialPort
           ${VMB_CPP_LIB} ${VMB_IMG_LIB} pthread)

Qt SerialPort documentation:
https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qserialport.html
